---
aliases: [ /p/meaningfully-use-alttech/ ]
title: Meaningfully Use Alternative Technology
---

There are many great articles on the web that clearly illustrate the threats we
face from BigTech corporations. Besides the blatant censorship, these things
include a total disregard for [privacy](/t/privacy/), enthusiastic cooperation
with [government](/gov/) agencies like [the FBI](/fbi/), etc. Yet, when I'm
done reading these articles, what do I see when I look around? "Follow us on
Twitter!" "Like us on Facebook!" "Subscribe to our YouTube channel!"

If these corporations are so dangerous (which they absolutely are), why do
content creators and organizations not promote the alternative platforms they
use? The suggestion here is not to completely abandon BigTech "platforms," but
rather to start _meaningfully using_ [better platforms](/alts/) to possibly
mitigate some of the risk we face from depending so heavily on BigTech. Below
are just a few ideas on how to do that.

## Share and _Promote_ Your AltTech Links

This is perhaps the most obvious: let your audience know about your presence on
alternative platforms! Mention your alternative platforms in your videos or put
links in the video descriptions, tweet the links out, put them in your
newsletters or at the end of your articles, etc.

Additionally, consider taking it a step further. On your website, instead of
just advertising your Facebook, Twitter or YouTube profiles, consider _also_
advertising your Flote, Minds or Odysee profiles in the same spot. On your
'About' or 'Connect' page, maybe mention these alternative platforms above any
BigTech platforms and why you are using them.


## Make Exclusive Content

Perhaps the least effective way to leverage alternative platforms is to use
them as a backup / archival service. On the other hand, they can be very
effectively used as... _platforms_. In other words, use them to actually
interact with even just a portion of your audience.

A great way of encouraging your audience to try an alternative platform is to
publish a portion of your content _only_ on a specific platform and not on your
usual platform(s). For example, creator
[Styxhexenhammer666](/profiles/styxhexenhammer666/) releases four videos each
day, two of which are only on YouTube. However, all four videos are published
on certain [alternative video hosting](/alt/video-hosting/) platforms! He has
been doing some variant of this for a while and therefore (not coincidently)
has the largest account on BitChute by subscriber count at the time of this
writing.


## Tease on BigTech Platforms

A different form of "exclusive content" would be to publish your regular,
timely, uncensored content on alternative platforms (or your own platform)
while delaying and censoring what you release on BigTech platforms. For
example, the [Gas Digital Network](https://gasdigitalnetwork.com/) is a media
company that produces a slew of great podcasts and runs a subscription based
model. They do release free versions of the podcasts on open platforms, but
these versions contain ads, are sanitized for community guidelines, and are
delayed by up to five days.

If you are a livestreamer looking to bring your audience over to another
livestreaming platform, you could go live on all platforms but then, for
example, drop the YouTube livestream after you do the intro to the show.

---

Alternative technology is [growing stronger](/t/alttech-growth/), especially as
BigTech pushes more people away. However, we can nudge this trend along by
promoting the alternatives we use. Additionally, doing so can serve as a way to
decrease dependence on BigTech platforms while still using them to gain
exposure and grow an audience. Individuals will have to find what works best
for them, but I hope this gives everyone some ideas, and I'll probably update
it as I see more.
