---
title: Twitter
caption: "Perfecting digital echo chambers."
legal:
  commguides:
    name: Rules and Policies
    asof: "2020-06-23"
    url: https://help.twitter.com/en/rules-and-policies
    wc: 61414
  privacy:
    asof: "2020-06-23"
    url: https://twitter.com/en/privacy
    sel: main > .p22-chapters-container
    arc: https://archive.vn/IlFAP
    wc: 4952
  tos:
    asof: "2020-06-23"
    url: https://twitter.com/en/tos
    sel: main > .p22-chapters-container
    arc: https://archive.vn/Ch4z3
    wc: 5606
sums:
  banned: true
  suspended: true
---

Twitter really takes the cake on many fronts, the most obvious would be
regarding legal policy since The _Twitter Rules and Policies_ are **over 60k
words**. That's about five hours worth of reading, and that's **not including
their Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.** However, there are more dangerous
aspects of the company to explore, such as involvment with world governments
and shadow banning practices.

## Government

Perhaps the most disturbing part of BigTech in general is the established
pattern of stifling voices and material that are critical of government.
Twitter has certainly done _its_ share.

On Christmas day in 2017, Twitter mysteriously [removed Wikileaks founder
Julian Assange's
account](/events/twitter-briefly-removes-julian-assanges-account/) for a few
hours. They also [restricted his mother's
account](/events/twitter-restricts-julian-assanges-mother/) about three weeks
before he was arrested in 2019 and [removed the @Unity4J
account](/events/twitter-suspends-julian-assange-defense-account/) a couple
months after his arrest (both of which were fully reinstated after significant
public outcry).

In May 2020, Twitter [appointed Li Fei-Fei to the Board of
Directors](/events/twitter-appoints-li-fei-fei-to-board-of-directors/). For
those who are unfamiliar, she is the former Vice President of Google who
allowed several unethical projects to move forward during her tenure including
Project Maven (which helped the US government drone more efficiently) and
Project Dragonfly (which helped China to censor more efficiently). She even
helped the company open an AI research facility in Beijing (the surveillance
capital of the world). Shortly after her appointment to Twitter's BoD, several
Chinese dissidents had their accounts suspended.

Twitter will also openly attempt to sway elections. For example, in 2018,
Senate candidate Austin Peterson [was temporarily
suspended](/events/twitter-suspends-austin-peterson/) a week before the
election for using a GIF from Twitter's own GIF library (not joking) after the
opposing candidate's supporters mass-reported his account. In April 2019,
Twitter [removed the UKIP campaign accounts for Tommy Robinson and Carl
Benjamin](/events/twitter-bans-ukip-accounts-for-carl-benjamin-and-tommy-robinson/),
claiming that the two were using their campaign accounts to evade their own
personal permanent bans.

## Shadow Banning

As early as February of 2016, [sources confirmed to
Breitbart](/events/sources-confirm-twitter-shadow-banning-exclusively-to-breitbart/)
that Twitter does in fact shadow ban. This was reinforced about two years later
when Project Veritas [published an undercover
report](/events/project-veritas-publishes-report-on-undercover-operations-regarding-twitter/)
that primarily exposed Twitter's affinity for shadow banning. When 2020
rolled around, they literally [added shadow banning to their
ToS](/events/twitter-adds-shadow-banning-to-tos/).

## Misgendering

Twitter is also absurdly sensitive when it comes to misgendering and really any
conversation around transgenderism. In November of 2018, [Meghan Murphy was
banned](/events/twitter-bans-meghan-murphy/) for tweeting "Men arenâ€™t women
tho." They even [suspened a professor of
psychiatry](/events/twitter-suspends-ray-blanchard/) for tweeting that it's his
belief that "Transsexualism and milder forms of gender dysphoria are types of
mental disorder." Free speech activist [Lindsay Shepherd was
banned](/events/twitter-bans-lindsay-shepherd/) in July of 2019 for calling a
person who identified as a woman a "fat ugly man."

Now one might think "Well, maybe Twitter is just trying to prevent bullying, so
they don't allow misgendering." While that would still be bad, the reality is
much worse. In November of 2019, journalist [Andy Ngo was
banned](/events/twitter-suspends-andy-ngo/) was hit with a 12 hour suspension
for tweeting verifiably true crime statistics regarding trans people, meaning even
uncomfortable facts might get an account suspended.
