---
title: YouTube
caption: Ok Susan.
legal:
  commguides:
    asof: "2020-07-03"
    url: https://www.youtube.com/about/policies/#community-guidelines
    wc: 8071
  privacy:
    asof: "2020-07-03"
    url: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en
    sel: /html/body/c-wiz/div/div/div[2]/div[3]/c-wiz
    wc: 5165
  tos:
    asof: "2020-07-03"
    url: https://www.youtube.com/t/terms
    sel: '#article-container'
    wc: 4175
---

The demise of YouTube is a sad and backward story about a platform turning its
back on the independent content creators who helped build it up in favor of
promoting legacy and corporate media outlets. They do this primarily by:
1. manipulating search algorithms to artificially boost content from channels
	 they label as "authoritative" while burying other content that would have
	 been found organically.
2. controlling where money flows by revoking monetization from smaller,
	 independent content creators for absurd reasons.

## Next Level Shadow Banning

YouTube gets caught shadow banning channels and videos all the time now.
However, they really took this shady practice to another level. On September
30, 2019, Steven Crowder [published
evidence](/events/crowder-confirms-youtube-shadow-ban/) that YouTube was shadow
banning his channel _only in the United States_. **He and many others warned**
that if they could do this to him, the largest conservative channel on the
platform, they will do it to anyone. Sure enough, less than a month later,
[YouTube was
caught](/events/youtube-gets-caught-shadow-banning-tulsi-gabbard-in-the-us/)
doing _the exact same thing_ to Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic presidential
candidate and current US congresswoman.

## Unreliable Monetization

There are many instances of creators being demonetized on YouTube en masse, but
there are two examples that stand out quite a bit.

In the beginning of 2017, an advertiser boycott triggered what came to be known
as [the Adpocalypse](/events/youtube-adpocalypse/) in which YouTube caved to
the boycott by demonetizing a massive amount of channels of all kinds. YouTube
then raised the eligibility requirements for the Parter Program so that YouTube
could, in their own words, "ensure revenue only flows to creators who are
playing by the rules."

In June of 2019, after a Vox employee claimed YouTube profits off of "hate
speech", YouTube caved and tried to appease him by demonetizing dozens of
channels that they claimed contained "hate speech." This came to be known as
[the Vox Adpocalypse](/events/voxadpocalypse/).
